Reworked plugin queues (#5088)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/kong-plugins/queue/index.md

---
title: About Plugin Queuing 
content_type: explanation
---

Starting with {{site.base_gateway}} 3.3.x, some Kong plugins now use queuing to decouple the production of data in the proxy path and the submission of that data to a server, such as a log server. This ensures that the upstream server isn't taxed by recieving many proxy requests at the same time.

The following plugins now use queuing:

* [HTTP Log](/hub/kong-inc/http-log/)
* [OpenTelemetry](/hub/kong-inc/opentelemetry/)
* [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog/)
* [StatsD](/hub/kong-inc/statsd/)
* [Zipkin](/hub/kong-inc/zipkin/)

This page describes why queues are needed and how plugin queuing works.

## Why are queues needed? 

> Some analytic and monitoring plugins, like HTTP Log and Datadog, must send request information that was processed by {{site.base_gateway}} to another server (the upstream server). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some analytic and monitoring plugins, like HTTP Log and Datadog, must send request information that was processed by {{site.base_gateway}} to the upstream server.
```

> Without queuing, the information is sent during the log phase to avoid introducing any latency to request or response. This isn't ideal because directly sending data from the log handler to the upstream server creates a large number of requests when {{site.base_gateway}} is under a high load. Sending out a large number of concurrent outbound requests can overload the log server and can negatively impact the ability of the machine running {{site.base_gateway}} to proxy requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending information directly from the log handler to the upstream server, instead of queuing it, avoids introducing latency to requests and responses. However, this approach can create a large number of requests when {{site.base_gateway}} is under a high load, which can overload the log server and negatively impact the ability of the machine running {{site.base_gateway}} to proxy requests.
```

The solution to this is to use batch requests. With queuing, request information is put in a configurable queue before being sent to the upstream server. This approach has the following benefits:
* Reduces any possible concurrency on the upstream server
* Helps deal with temporary outages of the upstream server due to network or administrative changes

> * Can reduce resource usage both in {{site.base_gateway}} and in the upstream server by collecting multiple entries from the queue in one request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Can reduce resource usage both in {{site.base_gateway}} and on the upstream server by collecting multiple entries from the queue in one request
```

{:.note}
> **Note:** Because queues are structural elements for components in {{site.base_gateway}}, they only live in the main memory of each worker process and are not shared between workers. Therefore, queued content isn't preserved under abnormal operational situations, like power loss or unexpected worker process shutdown due to memory shortage or program errors.
 
## How plugin queuing works

When {{site.base_gateway}} processes a request from certain plugins, it uses queuing to group the requests together before sending them to the upstream server. 

<!--
[DIAGRAM HERE?]
> _**Figure 1:** Description of diagram._
-->

You can use several different configurable parameters for queuing. The following sections explain these features of plugin queuing in detail.

### Queue capacity limit

Previously, the queue didn't have any capacity limits. This resulted in a worker process exhausting all available memory if data was produced fast enough and the upstream server would be slow or unavailable.

> Now, you can configure the maximum number of entries that can be queued at any time with the `max_entries` queue parameter. When a queue reaches the maximum number of entries queued and another entry is enqueued, the oldest entry in the queue is deleted to make space for the new entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can configure the maximum number of entries that can be queued at any time with the `max_entries` parameter. When a queue reaches the maximum number of entries queued and another entry is enqueued, the oldest entry in the queue is deleted to make space for the new entry.
```
